[1] Mark had once been a mechanic, fixing broken things in odd places, but for some time now, he had lost all desire to fix what was broken, and instead resigned himself to watching things decay. That whole strange city, with its abandoned factories, broken bricks, and endless rain, was in a state of decay. Most of the old iron foundries had been closed for thirty years. He could think no better place to be. 

[2] He liked to take his city tours in the early hours, when the tense, murmured conversations that drifted through apartment walls had ceased, and dying machines felt no need to hide their voices. For almost a week now, he'd heard a strange sound coming from the steel mill by the canal. It wasn't the sound of wind. It was a deep, metallic hum—like a thousand rusty pipes singing a sad, low song in unison.. Tonight, he decided, he would uncover its source.

[3] Driven by curiosity, Mark grabbed his flashlight and stepped inside the giant, dark factory. There was nothing to stop him. Few buildings in that city still had their doors, and the very word door was something of a private joke among its residents, as if such a thing stood any chance against entropy.  The air inside the mill was cold and tasted like iron and wet copper. As he crept along the empty, concrete hallways, the sound grew louder. It was rhythmic, almost like a heartbeat. He followed the arterial hallways deeper into the shadow of the giant machine that had once burned like a proud star, its molten heart churning all hours of the day, but as he drew closer, he noticed the rust on the walls was glowing with a faint, pulsing orange light.

[4] Mark reached the main hall. In the center sat a group of vagrants, huddled around the massive furnace. But they were completely still. No one turned to look at him, this possible heat-thief looking to snatch a coal from the furnace. Mark approached them slowly, then reeled in horror, when he saw that their legs and arms were fused to the concrete, the flesh twisting into iron pipes that fed directly into the great machine. 

[5] Mark tasted ash in his mouth, and felt his blood boil, but could not let a scream. None of the people moved their faces, but their open mouths produced the deep, beautiful music that had lured him here. They looked almost peaceful. Then, as if awoken by this choir, the furnace choked, sputtered, and began to glow. It was alive, breathing hot steam through its metal valves. This was a resurrection. 

[6] Mark tried to turn around and run, but his feet were heavy. He looked down at his boots. Thin, orange threads of living rust were climbing up his leather shoes, stitching his feet to the cold metal floor. He fought against them, tearing at the rusty vines, then abandoned his boots altogether, wriggling out of them and dashing barefoot from the groaning machine.

[7] The metallic song suddenly turned into a sharp, piercing screech. Heavy steam erupted from the pipes around him. Mark ran blindly through the dark halls, fleeing the heat, chasing down the cool night air coming from the broken entrance. At last, he burst through the factory doors and fell onto the wet asphalt of the empty street outside. Behind him, the factory had fallen completely silent again. The glowing lights vanished. The choir had failed, he thought. But surely they had tried before, and surely they would try again. 
