[1] I speak of the swift ship Argo, and its crew of fifty men, many of them storied heroes whose names you shall recognize all these years later. Jason was its captain, and under his command did these fifty men travel to distant lands to seek the golden fleece. Among them was Hylas, most handsome by far, whose beauty was rivaled only by his bravery. He was a dear friend and confident of Herakles, mightiest of men, and the two would spend long hours together hunting and training, and from Herakles did Hylas learn many skills. 

[2] They were not far into their voyage when the fifty-oared Argo arrived at the shadowy shores of Phasis. Young Orpheus, who perched upon the mast with his lyre, marked their discovery with sweet songs, and declared that this island, these woods, were beloved of the nymphs. The men made camp on shore, prepared their midday meal, and made their beds among the meadow-grass and marigolds. Drowsy from the sun, the men drifted off in the shade and dreamed of sirens that called them out to sea. 

[3] Fair Hylas did not sleep. He carried a bronze pitcher into the woods, as if to fetch water, though  in truth he thought only of Orpheus' song, and of the promised nymphs who lived among the reeds. He would steal a glance, nothing more, and return the camp before he was missed. He would lay down in the marigolds at Herakles' side, visions of those beautiful nymphs still fresh in his mind. 

[4] Hylas came to a shady glen, where the pines closed rank and hid the clearing from strange eyes. The wind plucked at the needles, and just ahead, Hylas heard the bubbling of a spring. He drew closer, its bank rich with rushes and swallow-wort, its waters cool and clear-- and there, a fluttering of pale skin, a twisting body, a flash of red hair, was a gathering of nymphs, forever young, dancing in the water, their eyes sad and dark. 

[5] They stopped when they sensed the intruder, fixed their curious eyes on him, and then, with silent gestures and parted lips, bade him approach. Hylas dropped the bronze pitcher, stripped, and waded out into the water. The nymphs met him halfway, and he felt their cold hands on his chest, his face, his arms. Piece by piece, they pulled him under, down to their secret grottos adorned with pond-weed and ghostly lily-roots, where he would pass the rest of his days. 

[6] When he awoke, Herakles did not see Hylas at his side. He rubbed the sleep from his eyes, then felt a pang of fear, something he felt very seldom. He called out for Hylas, but his companion did not answer. Fear was unfamiliar to Herakles, and it drove him nearly to madness. He dashed into the woods, wild-eyed, hunting for dear Hylas as a lion hunts a bleating lamb. He wandered recklessly, fruitlessly, and noble Jason had no choice but to leave Herakles behind on the lonely isle of Phasis. 

[7] Some say that after many weeks, Herakles stumbled upon the bronze pitcher Hylas had dropped. Some say the gods did not even grant him that mercy, and Herakles found no trace of his friend, stolen by the nymphs. 