[1] I want to tell you of bodies changed, those strange salt rains and a town swallowed whole by the sea. For most of us, it was a tale of horror. There had been a witch who lived in a house on a hill. She walked into the sea one winter, and the waters came soon after, as if she had been the only thing holding them back. As the waters rose, we lost our senses, day by day. But there was happiness too, little pieces, if you knew where to look. I want to tell you a love story, a story I heard from a thin and lonely man one chilly November morning. 

[2] There was Tom, the carpenter’s apprentice, and Sarah, the barmaid. She began limping one day, and her condition only grew worse, to the point where she spent nearly all her time perched on a bar-stool. Tom was the only one she trusted, and one day she let him look. He turned up her skirt, rolled down her leggings, and saw that her legs had begun to fuse together. 

[3] She wanted to hide this deformity from the rest of the town. When it was dark, he would carry her down to the shore, to one of those strange salt shacks that sprouted up after the rains, and grew like coral, bit by bit. They would pass the nights by the sea, in this place where they were safe, and when it was clear that Sarah could no longer hope to hide her new body, he carried her into the sea. 

[4] In those freezing waters, she came alive. Her silver scales caught the moonlight as she raced around their secluded cove. She could dive down to the bottom and find the most beautiful things buried in the sand, old things the tide had taken years ago. She asked Tom if she frightened him, and he told her the truth. He told her no. 

[5] She did not belong to our village, not anymore. The sea was her home now, though she would still visit Tom when the tide was high. They met on rocky beaches, swam in their secret cove, where the salt rains sprouted crystal trees. She’d sink her sharp teeth into the fish she’d catch, and he would comb the seaweed from her hair and pick barnacles from her skin. It was an unusual love, but love nonetheless. 

[6] This sort of thing could not remain secret for long. People were hurting. They were cold, they were hungry, and they wanted a solution. Old Mrs. Harvey had one. There has been a miracle, she told them. But someone is hiding it from you. We could bring in visitors from the city, bring in more money than we’d know what to do with if we had a miracle to show. But that man is keeping it for himself. He wants you poor. He wants you hungry. He wants to see this town wither away like so many villages on the coast. Are you going to give him what he wants?

[7] When the tide came in, they tracked Tom to that secret cove, and when Sarah came to see him, they sprung their trap. They held him down as they dragged Sarah from the sea. When the men saw her, they had to agree. She was a miracle, and she belonged to them all. 

[8] Mrs. Harvey paraded her catch through the streets, announcing that the troubles were over, our town would known up and down the coast, folks would travel from a hundred miles away to get a glimpse of our mermaid. 
Tom had friends of his own, though. There were some who could not bear to see such a creature locked in a cage. They attacked the procession, and in the struggle Sarah broke free, shattering her glass cage with her strong tail. 

[9] Seeing that the mermaid was slipping from her grasp, Mrs. Harvey threw herself upon poor Sarah. If she could not have her, she would at least have answers, about the witch, the rising waters, the salt rains, our changing bodies. What have you seen? Harvey snarled. What has she told you? Out with it, girl. 

But when Sarah opened her mouth, nothing but seawater came out. The witch had taken her voice.

[10] At sunrise, Tom carried her back to the sea. It was the last time he would hold her. She would not visit him at the cove, would not bring him fresh fish and fat lobsters, would not lie with him in the tide pools under the moonlight. She did not belong with him, and he did not belong with her. 

[11] As I said, I heard from a lonely man, and you may not believe it. But I believed him, because I have seen far stranger things than mermaids. I know that there is a palace at the bottom of the sea, surrounded by a garden of bone, a place the witch calls home, and she is waiting for him there. When the tide takes us all, he will join her. 

