[1] Not long after they escaped from the cave of the cyclops, Polyphemus, who they had learned was a son of the terrible sea-god, Poseidon, Odysseus and his men made land upon the isle of Aiolia, where Aiolos, king of the winds, lived in a grand palace with his six sons and six daughters. King Aiolos welcomed them, and together they had a feast. During this feast, Odysseus told the king of their adventures and troubles, but did not mention the son of Poseidon.

[2] In accordance with the laws of hospitality, Aiolos made sure the Greeks did not leave empty-handed. He gave them provisions, grain and oil and wine, along with sweet milk and honey, and lambs to be slaughtered. Odysseus thanked him for these things, and as he prepared to depart with his men, King Aiolos took him aside, and gave him one final gift. It was a bag, filled with great storm winds, for Aiolos indeed possessed such power. If all hope seemed lost, the king said, these western winds would carry them home. 

[3] Odysseus and his men heeded Aiolos' warning that this gift was not to be opened lightly, For nine days and nine nights they drifted at sea, but the sea-winds did not favor them. They sailed aimlessly, with slack sails, and at last, the crew could resist no longer, and they untied the bag of winds. A great tempest erupted from the bag, and their ship pitched violently, and they lost their course. Thrown about by the winds and waves so fierce they thought their ships would be torn asunder, the Greeks despaired, for they were certain that they would not survive the night. 

[4] They did, in the end, survive that terrible storm that came from the bag of winds, but when the storm subsided, they saw that the winds had carried them not to the west, but instead back to the island of Aiolia, where the wind-king's palace stood. Odysseus was granted another audience with King Aiolos. Odysseus asked why the winds had failed them, and King Aiolos told him there was but one explanation for this. Odysseus was cursed, for he had offended one of the gods, who were far more powerful than King Aiolos, and his enchantments held no power in the face of the gods' wrath. 

[5] Odysseus next made land on the island of the fearsome Laestrygonians, each of whom stood twice as tall as an average man, and whose prowess in battle was rumored throughout the Mediterranean. The lord of these giants was Antiphates, and he ruled together with his queen, for the women of the Laestrygonians were known to fight alongside the men. 

[6] The Greeks had brought with them casks of the Wind-King's wine, which the gave to the Laestrygonians as an offer of friendship. Antiphates took the casks of wine and broke them open, and he and his men drank deeply of the unmixed wine, and they became incensed, and took to fighting amongst themselves. They offered nothing to the Greeks, but instead demanded more from them, and when Odysseus said that they had no more to give, the giants turned upon the Greeks, attacked them, and gave chase when they tried to flee. 

[7] The Laestrygonians attacked the Greeks with spears and boulders. They hurled the boulders down from high upon the cliffs, sinking part of the Greeks' fleet, and gored the men with spears upon the beach. While he pushed out to harbor, narrowly evading the giants' grasp, Odysseus could only look back in horror as a Laestrygonian warrior tore a ship in half with his bare hands. The sand was wet with Greek blood that day, and he lost many good men to the fury of those red-haired barbarians. 