[1] Odysseus would often wonder, even much later in his life, why he alone had been spared from the storm. He had not eaten of the sun-god's cattle, yes, but was it not his fault that they were lost to begin with? He had driven in the stake that had blinded the cyclops, that malformed son of Poseidon, and not even Athena, who favored him, could protect him from the sea-god, or convince him to make peace. Survival can be its own form of punishment, and Odysseus felt this keenly as he washed up on the shore of yet another strange island, and sputtered up sea water, and watched the waves for any trace of the men the storm had taken. He saw nothing at all. 

[2] He looked out to the sea until the last of his hope had left him, and then looked inland. This island was stranger than any he had seen before. Atop a hill there was a palace, or what he assumed was a palace, though in truth it was like no building he had ever before laid eyes upon. It had walls of polished stone so smooth he could see his own haggard face in it. This stone curved in ways no stone he knew could curve, and the plants in the garden grew in ways no plants ought to grew. And there, before the palace, on a throne just as strange as everything else in that palace, was a woman. She said her name was Calypso. 

[3] "Come," she said, and took his hand. She led him into her palace, and laid him down upon a bed, and brought him many things, salves and potions and fragment herbs and other things which she promised would make him strong. She had no maidservants, he noticed. She was alone on this island. There were no fields to be tilled, let alone slaves to till them. She kept neither sheep nor cattle. He did not even hear birdsong. "Are you a goddess?" he asked her, but she did not reply. 

[4] She was beautiful, and very kind, but still he felt uneasy, and when he thought was strong enough to leave, he looked out over the sea, and asked her if she knew of Ithaca, or if she could help him find the way home. "You are not yet strong enough to go to sea," she said. "I've heard of you, Odysseus. I know that you have made Poseidon your enemy, and you cannot face him as you are now. Stay, please. I can make you well. Won't you spend the night?" 

[5] He sat with her, and she gave him strong tea and sweet liqueurs. Her potions eased his mind, and he thought briefly of Circe, and her enchantments. Calypso washed him and trimmed his hair and kept him warm and talked with him for hours. She nourished him, and he was happy with her, and the days and nights passed quickly. He scarcely noticed the seasons change, and soon a year had passed, and then another, and another. They spent seven years together in her palace, and he could easily have spent seven more, for when he was under her spell, he believed he loved her. 

[6] It had been nearly twenty years since he sailed for Troy. His hair was now gray and his skin had begun to wrinkle. Some days, his bones ached, and nothing could soothe them. Back in Ithaca, his boy, Telemachus, was now a man, and would not recognize his own father if he ever made it home. It would have been easier to stay there with Calypso, because she loved him, and he would be a stranger to his friends and family, who had likely accepted long ago that he had perished either at war or at sea. But the goddess Athena would not allow this, and one evening she appeared to Odysseus, brandishing her gleaming spear, adorned in golden armor. "You must leave this place," she said. "Your son is searching for you. Your wife awaits your return. They have not lost hope." 

[7] Odysseus told Calypso of his meeting with the goddess. She was heartbroken to lose him, for she truly loved him, more than any other mortal before, but she could not defy the sharp-eyed goddess. She would have to let Odysseus go. Though trees were sparse on that island, clever Odysseus built a sturdy raft to take him home. Calypso gave him gifts for his journey, and held him awhile and kissed him one last time, and then he pushed away from the shore, sailing alone, sailing home. 