[1] Circe told them to look for a star in the western sky, and follow that star until they could go no further, and so they did, sailing for days and nights until the waters of the sea ran dry and only salt remained, fields of bitter salt stretching as far as the eye could see. Odysseus disembarked, and though his men wished to accompany him across the plains of the underworld, he told them to stay with the ship, for he had to make this journey alone. He left his weapons behind, and brought offerings for the dead. 

[2] When he reached a spot far from the ship, Odysseus knelt and prayed and made a sacrifice. He dug a votive pit, and poured into it milk and wine and honey, and then slashed the neck of a lamb, and let the libations mix together, for he had learned that this was the way to summon the shades of the dead. 

[3] As the milk mixed with the honey, and the blood mixed with the wine, shadows began to rise from the salt, ephemeral things whose faces he could scarcely make out, and whose voices drifted away in the wind before they could reach his ears. They were drawn by the scent of the offerings, and some bent to drink of them, but could not, because their hands passed through the votive pit and sunk back into the salt.  

[4] Odysseus had been told to seek out the shade of Tiresias, the blind prophet of Thebes whose name had been known throughout Greece for a very long time. When he prayed, he had dedicated the lamb to Tiresias, and him alone, and though many shades now lingered about him, he did not spot the blind prophet. Then, from among that sullen flock, there emerged an ancient man with a golden staff, and Odysseus knew that this was the man whom he sought. "Son of Laërtes," the prophet said. "Let me taste of your blood, for this is how I may know men, and what fate holds in store for them."

[5] Odysseus took the knife which he had used to slaughter the lamb, and made a cut across his palm, and Tiresias lapped up his blood as one with a terrible thirst takes to a cool spring. "Ah," the prophet said. "You have travelled far, yet you are still so far from home. You angered a god when you blinded his son, and now he prevents your swift return. I can tell you only this. You will make landfall on a place called Thrinakia, and there will your men set their eyes upon the cattle of Helios, the sun-god. If your men raid these cattle, and make a feast of them, then they shall all perish. You will lose them all, Odysseus. You will lose them all." 

[6] Tiresias withdrew before Odysseus could question him further. No sooner had he left than another shade appeared to Odysseus, and Odysseus recognized his face at once, for he had known this man very well, but had not learned of his friend's passing. It was Agamemnon, son of Atreus and King of Mycenae. Here, Odysseus learned of a crime. Clytemnestra, still aggrieved at the death of her daughter, had slain her husband upon his return from Troy. Those years of war, and the things they had done, would not be forgotten. They would stay with them all their lives. None of them could return home so easily. 

[7] There were others whom Odysseus spoke with, and still more whom he searched for, but was unable to find. He wished the prophet had had better words for him, but knew also that his transgression against the sea-god would not be so easily forgiven. Blood had to be repaid with blood. They were still far from home, and Odysseus would have to tell his men that not all of them would survive the journey.