[1] Clara stood by her small kitchen counter, carefully measuring out the ingredients for a dinner party she was hosting for her close friends tonight. She needed to chop three red tomatoes, two crisp cucumbers and one carrot for a fresh salad, so she placed the colorful vegetables neatly onto a wooden cutting board and sliced them up.

[2] Her friends were pescatarians, which meant they didn't eat any meat, but they did eat fish. She had bought some fresh fish from the market earlier that morning, four juicy mackerel- one fish for each guest. The fish needed plenty of seasoning, so she put a small amount of garlic and a generous splash of cooking oil into a hot metal pan on the stove and watched the cloves of garlic sizzle. She measured out some spices and added a little salt to make the sauce rich and flavorful. The recipe called for a pinch of chili powder, a dash of black pepper, and a spoonful of dried ginger.

[3] Everything was going smoothly until her mischievous cat, Yakkai, silently leapt onto the counter when she wasn't looking. With a lightning-fast swipe of his paw, Yakkai snatched a whole fish that she had left on a white plate near the edge of the countertop. Clara spun around just in time to see Yakkai dash across the kitchen floor with the slippery mackerel gripped tightly between his sharp teeth.

[4] "Hey! That's our dinner!" she shouted, rushing after him. Yakkai jumped up to the top of his cat tree and glared at her. Clara looked at his basket of toys and picked his favorite toy, a stuffed white mouse. She tried to trade the mouse for the fish, but Yakkai wouldn't budge. Then, she smelled the delicious aroma of fried fish drifting from the kitchen, and she got an idea. 

[5] She quickly took the cooked fish out of the pan, and cut one of them in half. She made a small plate for Yokkai. When the cat saw the tasty meal, which was much better than raw mackerel, he gave the fish back to Clara, and she finished cooking. When her friends finally arrived, Yokkai sat at the table and ate dinner with them. 