[1] They came to the shores of Aiaia, land of eternal moonlight. There, the witch Circe, beautiful and divine, paced the pale shores of the sea and the ivory halls of that long-forgotten palace, built so long ago that many men thought it nothing more than a dream. Lions and wolves wandered through the trees and through her gardens, but did not attack, for they were under the witch's spell, and their heads were heavy with the drugs she brewed. 

[2] The Greeks were fearful as they approached the witch's palace, for memories of the cannibal Polyphemus, and the savage Laestrygonians were still fresh in their minds. The wolves and lions paced behind them with lolling tongues and wild eyes. From within those palace walls, they heard the witch singing softly. It grew louder and louder, filling their ears with secret promises, and then Circe herself appeared at the palace door, draped in silk and gold, and bade the men enter. 

[3] "There's no need to skulk around like bandits," she said. "If you men have strong hearts, and fear the gods, then I shall not deny you my hospitality. Come." And with a gesture of her slender arm, she ushered the Greeks inside. She sat them in her hall, at a grand table decked with wine and fruit and meats and cheese, and the men ate hungrily. So heartily did they eat, and so greedily did they drink, that they did not taste the poison which the witch Circe had mixed into the wine. 

[4] The poison took hold, and the witch's magic soon ran heavy in the Greeks' veins. Their bodies broke and twisted, and the men fell from their benches, grunting and grinding their teeth. Their fingers fused and hardened into swinish hooves, and their faces warped and stretched. Though their forms now betrayed them, their minds remained unchanged, and they snorted and squealed, but words came not to express their horror. Only Odysseus remained, untouched by the drug. 

[5] "Who are you, mortal, and from what country do you hail?" Circe asked. "In all my years, no man has resisted my potions. Are you indeed Odysseus, carried so far from the walls of Troy?" Odysseus told her that he was indeed Odysseus, and he came from Ithaca, and he wanted nothing more than to return home. "And return you shall," Circe said. "But not so quickly. I would have something from you first." And when Odysseus asked her what she wanted, she told him that he would spend a year with her, or his men would remain swine forever. 

[6] Odysseus thought of his wife, Penelope, and of his young son, and resisted the witch, but she worked her enchantments, and plied him with her strongest potions, and soon he too was under her spell, and as she had demanded, he passed a year in her bed, and in this time he forgot Ithaca, and forgot his wife, and his son as well, for the witch had it in her power to make men forget themselves. Circe loved him dearly, and did not want to let him go. 

[7] One day, when Odysseus walked alone by the shore, trying to recall his own name, the god Hermes appeared to him, youthful and radiant. "Odysseus," he said. "You have been too long here. The witch has you under her spell. A year has passed, and you have fulfilled your part of the bargain. It's time for you to wake up." And with this, Odysseus remembered who he was, and where he was, and why he had stayed. He returned to Circe's palace, and demanded that she free him at once, and restore his men to their human forms. She agreed, though she was saddened to lose him. "Now, Odysseus," she said. "There is is something you must do. You must travel to the land of the dead. The way back to Ithaca is long and treacherous, and only the shades of the underworld can tell you the way." 