[1] When they cleared the strait, and the seas were calm, they rowed into a bay, and disembarked. There was nothing left of the dead to bury, but the men wanted to mourn their shipmates. They took the fallen men's belongings, keepsakes from home, plunder from Troy, and built a funeral pyre. Odysseus watched from afar, but did not join in their mourning, for the men blamed him for their comrades' deaths, and they were not wrong for doing so. 

[2] As the pyre burned, Odysseus took stock of the island. He crested the hill, and saw what he had feared, for in the valley below were the cattle of the sun-god Helios, as the blind prophet Tiresias had foretold. Odysseus returned to his men on the shore, and though he hated to interrupt their mourning, his message to them could not wait. "Friends," he said. "I know I have kept things from you, and for that I am sorry. But know this, for your very lives depend on it. Here on this island are the cattle of the sun-god Helios, and you must not touch them, for the prophet Tiresias has foretold that if you eat of the sun-god's cattle, you shall all perish, each and every one." 

[3] The men agreed, but quietly they resented Odysseus, for he was the one who had brought their troubles upon them, and now he was forbidding them from eating the cattle, when they had been without meat for some time, and did not trust the words of the blind prophet. Still, they heeded his command. The winds were not in their favor, though. Onshore gales kept their ships in harbor, and they could not take sail. For a month, the winds trapped them on the island, and the stocks they had with them ran dry. They grew hungry, and hungry men are not so easy to control. 

[4] They had gone awhile without food. Their arms and their bellies grew thin, their cheeks grew gaunt, and their teeth grew brittle. Winter had arrived, and the land gave them nothing. Every day, the men stood above the valley, and watched the fat cattle grazing, and each day they grew angrier with Odysseus, for it was because of him that they were wasting away. They spoke seldom to him. These men who had once been his friends now despised him. Odysseus left them alone one evening, and hiked to the highest peak on the island, and he prayed to Athena to spare his crew. 

[5] While Odysseus was away, Eurylochus gathered the crew around him, and spoke to them plainly. "Comrades," he said. "For too long have we suffered on account of one man's superstition. The winds shall not change, and if we winter here, we will starve. Just over the hill are cattle, ready for the taking, but Odysseus would have us perish, rather than take the food that stands before us. I urge you all to defy Odysseus, and choose survival over superstition." 

[6] On Eurylochus' command, the Greeks went over to the valley where the sun-god's cattle grazed and drove their spears into the beasts' hides. They grabbed the choicest cattle by the horns and cut their throats and let the weakened animals bleed out into the tall grass. They brought the corpses back to their camp and built a roaring fire and tore the cattle asunder. They tossed the meat into the flames and listened with growling bellies as the fat popped and sizzled. They did not say a prayer before they ate, but instead reached their hands into the fire and pulled out the meat and tore at it with their teeth and took their fill. They glutted themselves, and when they had finished, they slept unwashed among the carcasses. 

[7] Odysseus saw his men sleeping when he returned, and saw the evidence of their crimes, and was saddened, for he remembered well the prophet's words, and knew that a disaster would soon befall them. He did not chastise them, and did not speak to them about what they had done, and when by some miracle the winds changed the next day, they all set sail in silence. Odysseus looked upon their faces, these men he had come to know so well, and though none would look him in the eye, he recalled all they had been through, and all they had done for him. It was not long before the storm caught them. The wind tore their sails, and the waves bashed the ship-boards to pieces, and the clouds swallowed up the sun, and when it was over, only Odysseus remained. 
