[1] They arrived at Ithaca early in the morning, after several days at sea. They brought their ship close to shore, and asked Odysseus if he would need an escort to the palace. He told them no, this was his island, and that was his palace, and it did not matter how many suitors arrived, he was still King of Ithaca. He thanked them for their help, and wished them well, and set off along the beach. Here by the water, when the Scherian ship had crossed over the horizon, Odysseus removed the fine garments they had given him, and washed the perfumed oils from his beard, and made himself up to look like a beggar, so that he might arrive to his palace without raising suspicion. 

[2] He hiked to the tops of the cliffs that overlooked the sea, and there found the hut of the swineherd Eumaeus, whom he had known as a boy, and who had grown very old and very gray indeed in the years he had been away. Odysseus greeted him, and though Eumaeus did not recognize him under the disguise, he offered him hospitality. He gave him a bed to sleep in, and food to eat, and said he could stay as long as he needed, and Odysseus thanked him. Through the little window in the hut, he could see his old palace atop the hill. He would first rest, and then see if things were indeed as King Alcinous had said. 

[3] It was cold and gray and foggy that evening, for winter was not far off, and winters in the Mediterranean can be bitter, especially on Ithaca. The mud was thick from recent rains, and he wrapped his cloak tightly around himself to keep out the winds. The gates were closed, for the sun had nearly gone down, and so he sat outside and shivered as it grew dark. Fires were burning in the palace, his palace. He hoped that his wife and son were warm and dry. 

[4] A watchman on his rounds came by in the dark, and Odysseus called out to him, and asked to be let in. The watchman obliged, and led this beggar up to the palace. The watchman delivered him to an old woman, and asked her to help him wash up, and to find him something dry to wear. Odysseus recognized her at once. This was Eurycleia, the slave who had nursed him as a boy, and tended to all his wounds and ailments over the years, and when Telemachus was young, she cared for him as well. When he undressed, Eurycleia gasped. She had spotted a scar on his leg, a reminder of a hunting accident from many years ago. When she saw this, she knew at once who he was. Odysseus clasped a hand over her mouth before she could say a word, and made her promise not to speak of his identity to anyone, for this was not the time to reveal himself, not yet. 

[5] As he walked through the courtyard, over to the main hall, where already he could hear laughter and drunken shouting, he heard a softer sound. It was a pitiful whimper. There by the stables, atop a dung-heap, was a gray, scruffy little dog. It was very old and very sick. The dog's name was Argos. Odysseus had raised it from a small pup so that it might be a companion for his son, who had been but an infant at the time. When he saw this sad creature, his heart was heavy, and picked it up and cradled it. The dog sniffed at him, and licked his cheek, remembering him well, then gave a little sigh, and breathed no more, satisfied that his master had returned home at last. 

[6] its fine everythings fine 

[7] if ur seeing this text then something in the app is broken idk what 
