[1] Clara stared at her glowing computer screen as heavy monsoon rain battered her apartment windows. She had a paper for her university class due at midnight. When thunderstorms hit her neighborhood, the power usually goes out, and that would be a total disaster. She quickly typed the final page of her paper. The paper was for her English poetry class, and she was writing about John Keats, her favorite poet. She was doing well in the class so far, and this paper was the final assignment. "If I write a great paper, I'll get an A in this class for sure!" she thought to herself. 

[2] Just then, a blinding flash of lightning split the dark sky, followed instantly by a terrifying crash of thunder that plunged the entire room into total, pitch-black darkness. Her heart sank as the screen went completely dead. She frantically pressed the power button, and tapped on the keyboard, but the computer showed no signs of life. She began to panic. "I didn't save my paper!" she thought. "If I lose my paper, all my weeks of research and hard work will be lost!" 

[3] She grabbed her phone. Phones still have battery if the power goes out, so she turned on her flashlight and crossed the room in the dark. The circuit breaker was in the kitchen. "Maybe the lightning just tripped the breaker," she thought. When the power goes out, sometimes all you need to do is flip the right switch. She opened the little metal door and flipped a switch-- the lights came back on! 

[4] She ran back to her computer and pressed the power button again, eager to get back to work. "If I really focus, then I'll have just enough time to finish before it's due," she thought. But her computer didn't turn on. Her panic returned. She remembered what her mother had always warned her about: if you don't plug your computer into a surge protector, a thunderstorm can destroy it. She got down on her knees to look. "Did I remember to plug my computer into a surge protector?" she said aloud. 

[5] Under her desk, she found a surge protector... and her cat, Yakkai. She had plugged her computer into the surge protector, but the cat had unplugged it when he was playing with the wires. She picked him up, and he meowed loudly, annoyed she was taking away his new toy. She plugged her computer back in, and it lit up right away-- her paper was safe. Yakkai curled up on the desk and purred. "You naughty cat," she said. "If I have to write another paper, I'll keep a closer eye on you next time." 