[1] In a smoky nightclub tucked away on Schönlanterngasse, a woman sat at a table alone. She had ordered a glass of Grüner Veltliner, which was usually her favorite, but she had too much on her mind that evening, and took little pleasure in the sour wine. She lit a cigarette, watched it burn down to its hilt in the ashtray, and was preparing to leave and sneak back to the boarding house where she rented a room, when she heard some notes rising from the piano, and a man began to sing. 

His voice was beautiful and sad, and though she did not know his song, she immediately felt that it had been written for her. In the dark, hazy club, she could not see the man’s face, but she stayed and listened to him for hours. Her wine tasted sweet again, and for the first time in a while, she thought that she might be able to feel alright. 

[2] The piano player’s name was Orpheus, and he stole a few glances at the woman that night. He liked her dark hair and delicate features, and sensed a certain melancholy about her that he knew quite well. Through the all smoke, he even managed to catch a whiff of her perfume, and he knew he would never forget that smell.

When he had finished playing for the night, and stepped out into the foggy city streets with a few fresh schillings in his pocket, he saw the same woman lying crumpled on the cobblestones. She was badly bruised, and had a deep wound in her leg. She was not breathing.

[3] Orpheus had heard some very old stories, stories that said death was not always the end, and that certain very old gods could grant favors if you found yourself before them. Orpheus did not know how to pray, so he instead sang a song for the god of the dead, and asked him for an audience.

To his surprise, he was soon joined by several men in uniform. They told him to follow them, and they led him down many narrow alleyways, to a place where the buildings were crumbling ruins, and the sky held no stars.

[4] The men led him to a strange café which stretched off in every direction as far as the eye could see. He walked among the tables, searching for her face, and soon he found it. She was sitting along, hands folded, glancing this way and that as if she was waiting for someone who was running late, and perhaps would never arrive. He tried to catch her eye, but she did not notice him. The men who had brought him there led him away from her table, and took him to a staircase hidden behind a curtain. They told Orpheus that the owner was expecting him.

[5] The staircase led to an opulent office, full of fine things and thick with cigar smoke. A man in an impeccable suit sat behind a mahogany desk, poring over various ledgers. Sit, boy, he said. I am Herr Hölle. I understand that you want something from me.

There’s a woman, Orpheus said. I do not know her name. But she does not belong here. Not yet. I will take her from this place. She’ll be yours again in time.

The man thought for a moment, and puffed his cigar, and ran his fingers, laden with rings, along his ledgers. Ah, he said at last. Her. She’s here because it was her time. There was no mistake.

[6] Still, though, I will grant your wish. I will grant your wish because I know your voice, and I know your songs, and the souls down here love them dearly. She will leave with you tonight, but under my conditions. She will follow you home, but you are not to look at her, not until you are returned to the land of the living. If you look back, even just for a moment, she will stay here with me, and so too will your voice.

Do as I say, and she will be yours. Defy me, and she will be mine, and you will never sing again.

Orpheus agreed, and signed the document which Herr. Hölle placed before him, and left that strange café, where the tables stretched off in every direction as far as the eye could see. As he passed by her table, he thought he heard a chair scraping, the rustling of coins and paper bills, the clink of a glass quickly drained and placed back on the table. He kept walking, out of the café, through all those ruined buildings, and though he heard no footsteps, he could smell her perfume, that unforgettable perfume, and he did not turn around.

[7] As he drew closer to the light at the end of the hall, a warm, iridescent glow which he knew came from the streetlights of the city he loved, he could no longer smell her enchanting perfume. He knew he could not look, but fear overtook him, and he was certain she had lost the way, and was not behind him, and
would not return with him to that city he loved, with its music halls and nightclubs and smoky cafés that stayed open until the early hours. Orpheus turned around, and for the briefest moment, thought he saw her face, but there was nothing left to see, just the hint of a dress, drifting in the wind like a ghost, and the smell of her perfume, which he would never forget.

He finished his walk alone, and when he returned to his city, the songs would not come to him, and he never sang again.
