[1] I want to tell you an extraordinary story. This is not a story about a war. This is not a story about anger or love or honor. It is not a story about gods; it is not a story about kings. You will hear about these things, of course, but this story is, above all else, a story about a man, a very clever man of many talents. His name was Odysseus.

[2] Odysseus came from an island called Ithaca. I cannot tell you where exactly this island was, or if it still exists today. Ithaca was one of many islands where the Greeks lived. It was not a very large island. It was not a very important island. But it was Odysseus' home, and he loved it dearly. One day, Odysseus was called away from Ithaca. He left behind his wife, Penelope, and his young son, Telemachus. He would not see them for a very long time.

[3] There was a king, you see. His name was Menelaus. He ruled over a place called Sparta. Menelaus had a wife named Helen, who was known throughout Greece for her beauty. Helen disappeared one day. She had gone to a far away city called Troy, on the other side of the Aegean Sea, with a prince named Paris. I do not know if she loved Paris, or if she was stolen, but I do know that Menelaus was overcome with anger and grief, and led the Greeks to war.

[4] A thousand ships sailed from Greece to Troy, but their journey was not an easy one. Menelaus had a brother, Agamemnon, who went hunting, and shot a deer with his bow. This deer was sacred to the goddess Artemis, and she put a curse on the Greeks. The winds would not carry their ships to Troy unless Agamemnon made a sacrifice for her. To appease the goddess, Agamemnon killed his own daughter, Iphigenia, and after he made this sacrifice, the winds brought the Greek ships across the sea.

[5] This was the first of many sacrifices, and many deaths, that occurred during that war. For ten long years, the Greeks and the Trojans fought. Many Greeks began to wonder if Menelaus' war was worth the heavy cost, and they became unhappy, and some, including mighty Achilles himself, refused to fight any longer. But that is another story entirely. In the end, it was clever Odysseus who brought an end to the war, and he did so in the most unlikely of ways.

[6] The Greeks built a horse, large enough for several men to hide inside. Odysseus and his most trusted men sealed themselves inside, and the horse was left in a place where the Trojans would find it. There are endless politics involved in the giving and receiving of gifts, and though many Trojans feared the horse was a trick, many still believed that it would anger the gods to refuse it. They brought it inside the city walls, and under cover of night, Odysseus crept from his hiding place, and opened the gates of Troy.

[7] What happened next was bloody and terrible, and today there is little left of the city of Troy but ruins. Helen was found, and she returned with Menelaus to Sparta. The Greeks returned home, their ships laden heavy with the spoils of war. Odysseus and his men, too, boarded their ship, and began their journey home. This journey would be far longer and more costly than any of them could have imagined.