[1] They returned to Circe, who prepared them a meal to see them off, this time without any tricks or enchantments, for Odysseus had fulfilled his promise. Odysseus told his men that they would hold a funeral for all their fallen comrades, who had never received a proper burial, and whose souls were adrift in the underworld. They built a pyre, and upon the pyre laid an effigy, and Circe placed a spell upon this effigy such that its burning would put all those lost souls to rest. They drank wine and shared stories, and feasted through the night. Come morning, Circe had her handmaidens bring supplies for their journey, and kissed Odysseus one last time, and then the Greeks set sail. 

[2] Their journey would take them past the fabled island of the sirens. Many sailors told tales of the sirens, and their enchanting song which could ensnare men's minds and lead them to drive their ships into hidden reefs and jagged cliffs. Countless bodies slept there at the bottom of the sea, so Odysseus gathered his men and proposed a plan. They would sail past the sirens, yes, but they would first stop their ears with molten wax, to drown out the sirens' song. He, however, had to hear that song, that song that no man before had ever heard and lived. His men would tie him to the mast, and keep him fast, no matter how much he pleaded or begged. 

[3] His men took sturdy ropes and tied Odysseus to the mast with tight knots. They bound his chest and feet and hands so that he would not dive overboard at the sirens' call. As they came upon the island of the sirens, and sailed very close to the shore, they saw the sirens upon the rocks, all very beautiful, but with mouths of sharp teeth and hungry tongues that darted across their lips. The men could not hear the sirens' song, but Odysseus could. The sirens spoke in poems, in images, and he saw his own son, Telemachus, sprawled out on the rocks, the sirens running their claws through his hair, and he began to scream and strain against his bindings, because he wanted to be with his son, but his men ignored his pleas, as he had told them to do. That song would echo in his mind for a long time. 

[4] They sailed the route the prophet had spoken of, the only route that could take them home. They would next have to travel past the monster Scylla and the dreaded whirlpool, Charybdis, which was known to swallow ships whole. Some said there was a middle path, which could take a ship right through the middle of them, a peaceful strait where the waters of Charybdis would not pull a boat in and the many heads of Scylla would not devour passing sailors. Most, however, said that such a path was a fable, and to sail these waters, one would have to choose one danger or the other. 

[5] Odysseus wanted to believe in the middle path. He wanted to believe that they could make the journey home without losing another man. But in his heart, he knew that he would have to choose. They could sail too close to the whirlpool, and every man would be lost, or they could pass under the monstrous Scylla, and lose only a few. It was not an easy choice, for some would die, and their deaths would be on his hands, but it was one he had to make. 

[6] And so, under Odysseus' command, they strayed far from the whirlpool, and entered the territory of the monstrous sea-serpent Scylla. He did not warn his men of the danger they faced, so they watched unknowing as the waters stirred. Shapes moved about in the dark sea, as the monster woke, sensing prey. Then, its heads burst from the water, jaws ready, and with incredible speed, each of its six heads snatched up a man. It took them so fast they barely had a chance to scream. It swallowed them whole, then slipped down beneath the waves, down to the depths of the sea, where it would lie in wait very patiently for its next meal. 

[7] His first mate, Eurylochus, looked upon his face, and because the two men knew each other well, knew straightaway that this had not been a surprise to Odysseus, and he had known of the monster, and known that some of the men would be lost. "Their blood is on your hands, Odysseus," Eurylochus said to him. "You led them to their deaths. You did not warn them." All the eyes left aboard were on him, and Odysseus hung his head. Sometimes, it is better to say nothing. 