[1] His raft was sturdy and watertight. It carried him far. He had food and wine from Calypso to keep himself strong while at sea. Athena was on his side, but Athena is not the only god, and terrible Poseidon the earth-shaker, god of the sea, had not forgiven Odysseus for what he had done to his son. Poseidon sent wave after wave after Odysseus, and though his raft held up admirably, the sea takes everything, sooner or later. His raft was smashed to pieces, and he was tossed about in the surf, but by the grace of the sharp-eyed goddess, he washed up on shore, on this island of Scheria. 

[2] There were maidens there, washing their clothes not far from where the river met the sea. Odysseus approached them carefully, battered and bruised from Poseidon's storm, stripped of nearly everything, and when the girls saw him, they screamed and ran. Only one stayed, a very young girl not more than fourteen. She looked him in the eyes, and was not afraid. She said her name was Nausicaä. 

[3] She must have taken him for a beggar, dressed in rags as he was, but she knew that the gods value hospitality greatly, and indeed a god may sometimes take the form of a beggar on your doorstep. "Come with me," she said. "You must be hungry. We will find you something to eat, and a bed to rest in, and something fine for you to wear." 

[4] Nausicaä was a princess, he learned. Her father was King Alcinous, and her mother was Queen Arete. She had grown up in a beautiful palace. The war in Troy had begun before her birth, and ended when she was very young. He told her his name, and where he was from, and about the many adventures and tragedies that he had faced along his journey home. She did not recognize his name, nor had she heard of Ithaca, though she said her parents, the king and queen, might know.

[5] The palace of King Alcinous and Queen Arete was indeed beautiful, adorned with frescoes and trellises and cool fountains in the courtyards. Nausicaä embraced her father when they arrived, and Odysseus saw how happy they all were, and how much the king and queen loved their daughter. King Alcinous knew of Odysseus, and knew of Ithaca, and was very surprised to see this man whom most had presumed died long ago. 

[6] Odysseus wished to know of his home, of his wife and son, and what had happened during the years he was away. "I have not been to Ithaca myself," the king said. "But I have heard that your home is full of suitors, vying for the hand of your wife Penelope. They drink your wine, and eat your grain, and give nothing in return. Your wife weaves a funeral shroud for her father, and has said that she will choose a husband only once it is finished. But she is clever, Odysseus. Just as clever as you. By day she weaves, and by night she unravels the shroud, for she will accept no man as her husband but you." 

[7] Odysseus stayed in the palace on Scheria for several days, and King Alcinous treated him well. He ate and rested and soon regained his strength. Alcinous arranged for a ship to carry him back to Ithaca, and made sacrifices at the temple to ensure a safe voyage. When it was time for Odysseus to depart, Nausicaä went with him to the harbor, and gave him a token she had carved herself. It was a small wooden horse, and she said it would bring him luck. He took it from her, and though he feared this token might be an ill omen of which she was entirely unaware, he thanked her all the same. 