[1] After some time at sea, the Greeks' supplies were running low, for the seas were silent, and gave them little to eat, and their stock of the Cicones' wine and mutton had nearly run dry. When they spotted land, they had no choice but to make port, though they did not know what men called these lands home. As they disembarked, they saw that these new lands were rich indeed, but untilled, as if the men who lived here knew not how to plow nor to sow. Young nymphs drove flocks of wild goats down from the hills, and in the distance, Odysseus spotted the great cyclops, the giants who ruled these untamed lands. 

[2] Though wild in appearance, Odysseus hoped that these cyclops too knew the ways of Zeus, and thus he had his men gather what little they had, and bring it with them to give as an offering to these savage men. They came to a great cave, high up on the hill, and when they entered the cave they saw a rack laden with cheese, and a pen of bleating lambs, and the men demanded Odysseus let them take the meat and fresh cheese, but Odysseus refused, and said they must wait for their host, and offer him what they had. 

[3] Come evening, the master of this cave returned with his flock. He was a cyclops, named Polyphemus, and though his appearance was frightening, Odysseus bade his men steady themselves, and behave as guests. Upon his return, Polyphemus covered the mouth of the cave with a great stone, and the cave was dark save for the light from the fire. "O Strangers," he said, upon spotting them. "Who be ye, and whennes come ye? Be ye theves, comen fro the wilde see?" And Odysseus said that no, they were not thieves, they were Greeks, and they had come with gifts, and they would trade with him if he so desired. 

[4] The cyclops Polyphemus answered in brutish manner. "Thou art a fool, for thou comest fro no-wher." he said. "Whennes is youre schip? Is it nygh or fer?" And when Odysseus asked him if he knew the ways of Zeus, the brute responded, "I have no drede of Jove, ne of the goddes." And upon saying this, he laughed, and grasped hold of two of Odysseus' men and bashed their brains against the stone and brought the limp bodies to his mouth and bit them in half. 

[5] When he had finished his bloody meal, and wiped the gristle from his chin and picked clean his teeth with the men's bones, he curled up beside the fire, and fell asleep. Odysseus' men were fearful and enraged and wanted to attack the sleeping beast at once, but Odysseus held them back, for the heavy stone still blocked the door, and if they killed the cyclops, they would be trapped inside. They had no choice but to wait til morning, trembling, and come morning, the cyclops woke, and milked his ewes, and devoured two more men whole, and left with his flock, and Odysseus and his men were once again alone inside. 

[6] Once the cyclops had left them alone, Odysseus set to work. He took the longest log from the Cyclops' fire, and with his men they scraped and shaved and hewed it till it was sharpened at the point, and very deadly. And when the cyclops returned with his flock that evening, Odysseus offered him the last of the Cicones' wine, and said to him, "Drink, Cyclops, wash down your meal with this liquor, for we brought it as a gift for you, and it would be a shame for it to go to waste." And he plied the Cyclops with wine until he was drunk, and said, "Cyclops, you wish to know my name? My name is Nobody, and I come from Nowhere." And the Cyclops replied, "Nobody shal be my mete, and thanne I shal ete Nobodyes frendes." 

[7] Because he had drunk the wine, and drunk it to excess, the cyclops Polyphemus staggered and slumped and lay down as if to sleep, and Odysseus and his men seized on this moment. They took the sharp log, which they had placed back into the fire, so that it would grow red-hot, and with a great heave, they drove it deep into the cyclops' milky eye. Blood poured from the wound, and sizzled against the stake, and so too were his eyelid and eyelashes singed in the heat, and the wet of his eye hissed and popped. The cyclops shrieked so loudly that Odysseus feared the cave might come crashing down around him, and this cry was met with another, much louder voice, that seemed to come from the very stone itself. 


[8] From all around came the voices of the other cyclops, who each kept their own cave, and their own flock, and had heard the pitiful cries of Polyphemus. "What greveth thee, Polyphemus?" the called. "Why criest thou in-to the sterry skye?" And in return Polyphemus called, "Nobody hath deceyved me!" And they responded, "Wel, if nobody hath doon thee harm, we be of no use for peyne given by the goddes. Let it be thy fader, Poseidon, to whom thou prayest." And it was here that Odysseus realized that this cyclops was indeed the son of Poseidon, god of the sea, and it was thus a great crime to have attacked him, and Odysseus could only hope that his trick would spare his name from reaching the ears of sea-god in his palace at the bottom of the sea. 

[9] The cyclops having been blinded, Odysseus thought quickly and came up with a new plan. His rams were large, far larger than any normal sheep, so as the monster wept by the fire over the loss of his eye, Odysseus plucked twine from his bed, and with this twine he had his men tie themselves to the rams' underbellies. And come dawn, when Polyphemus stumbled to the mouth of the cave and rolled away the heavy stone, letting his flock out to pasture, Odysseus and his men were carried out to safety, right under the monster's nose.