[1] When John Henry was just a baby, and the mountains were much taller than they are today, he threw down his rattle while his mama nursed him, picked up a hammer and held it fast. His mama said, someday that boy’s gonna die with that hammer in his hand, and I’ll be the one has to bury him with it. John Henry was the youngest of twelve siblings, and his mama spoke the truth when she said she’d have to bury him. He was the first of his brothers and sisters to die, and he did indeed die with a hammer in his hand. His name would outlive the mountains, though, and even out in California the working men know his name and know his story. That story went like this. 

[2] John Henry could work harder than a dozen men. He worked down in the mines, hauling up coal by the ton, and worked on the railroads as well, and when you’re walking along the tracks in this part of the country, chances are you’re walking along tracks that John Henry himself laid. He married a pretty woman called Polly-Anne, and the two of them could’ve had a good life together, but fate had different plans in mind. 

[3] Word began to spread around town of this new machine, the rock-drill, and the company men said that this new machine could do the work of a hundred men, it worked harder and faster and never got sick or needed a moment of rest, it never had to stay home and take care of family and it didn’t need Sunday mornings off to go to church. With a machine like this, they didn’t need so many men working on the mountain, and those men would have to find some other way to make their bread. 

[4] John Henry spat when he saw the machine, and said that if it could work as hard as a hundred men, he’d work as hard as two hundred, and if it could work as hard as two hundred men, he’d do the work of a thousand, and there wasn’t nothing on God’s earth, no man no machine, that was stronger than him. And if the company men wanted to send his brothers and friends away from the mountain, they could do so, but only if the machine could dig straight through the mountain faster than he could. I’ll race your machine, he said, and I’ll win. 

[5] The race began, and John Henry swung his hammer so hard folks thought he’d knock the mountain clear out of the ground. He cleared a path under the mountain, sweating buckets as he dug through stone that had stood firm for a thousand thousand years. But not far off from him, the rock-drill chugged and wheezed and bore its own path. It did not sweat, it did not tire, and it showed no signs of slowing. But whenever it seemed like the drill was inching ahead of John Henry, John Henry just swung his hammer harder. The machine was fast, fast as a hundred men, even, but John Henry was faster. 

[6] Men had gathered on the far side of the mountain, and waited there in the cold all through the night, and come daybreak the earth started to tremble, the birds took the the sky and even the rattlesnakes went looking for their mamas, since it seemed like Hell itself was about to spit something out. There was a crack like thunder, and John Henry burst from the mountain. It had been a close one, no doubt about it, but John Henry had beat the machine. He’d won the race. 

[7] I wish I could tell you that the story ended just like that, but as John Henry staggered out of the mountain, and set his eyes upon Polly-Anne, who was waiting for him there, his heart beat once more, then stopped altogether. He’d used up every one of his heartbeats to win that race, and he when he went, he was holding his hammer, just like his mama said he’d go. John Henry died right there at the foot of the mountain, but every man watching made sure their sons learned his name, and his story, and their sons in turn told their sons of John Henry, and so it went that from coast to coast, folks knew of the man who fought the machine and won, and though those mountains grow smaller year by year, John Henry only stands taller. 